{:title "splint 1.2.2 and 1.2.3 and 1.2.4"
 :date "2023-04-24T16:12:54.490Z"
 :tags ["cohost mirror" "clojure" "splint" "linter" "linters" "programming" "devblog" "functional programming"]
 :cohost-url "1386994-splint-1-2-2-and-1-2"}

oops, forgot to post in here about these (not that anyone on cohost uses splint :eggbug-sob:)

1.2.2 big changes:

* Differentiate between `&&.` rest args and parsed lists in `:on-match` handlers by attaching `:noahtheduke.spat.pattern/rest` metadata to bound rest args.
  * Allows us to write patterns that reuse the same binding var in single element and rest args positions: `(if ?x ?y nil)` and `(if ?x (do &&. ?y) nil)` differentiate `?y` with the above metadata.

1.2.3 big changes:

* Fix `lint/fn-wrapper` false positive on interop.
    * Clojure is silly and doesn't treat static methods as function calls unless they're in function position. For example, `(map Integer/parseInt ["1" "2" "3"])` crashes because `Integer/parseInt` is treated as a static field. You have to write `#(Integer/parseInt %)` to get the Clojure compiler to understand what you mean. This should not be a splint warning, so to handle it, I'm parsing all imports and attaching `spat/imported-ns` metadata to the parsed symbol when it applies, and then checking that metadata in the `lint/fn-wrapper` `:on-match` function and also checking the built-in list of imports. This should cover the vast majority of cases, and any other cases are silly and shouldn't be written DUH.
* Various performance improvements:
  * Switched a bunch of internal sequence processing from lazy to eager, gaining a non-zero amount of speed from not having to juggle the seq stuff.
  * Changed `simple-type` to use protocols instead of a big `cond` which improves speed quite a bit. Removes a whole lot of function calls, and lowers calls on complex types (lists, sets, vectors, and maps) from 90+ ms to 5ms. Small but important when we're calling `simple-type` on every single element and sub-element in every file.
  * Switched the binding atom to be a `volatile!`, because there's no cross-thread sharing of pattern execution.
  * Use interop directly in a couple places to avoid expensive if-thens in the Clojure runtime.

1.2.4

* Immediately released to fix a small bug/fuck up in 1.2.3 lmao owned
