{:title "Reign 2e"
 :date "2024-03-12T05:02:30.249Z"
 :tags ["cohost mirror" "Reign" "Greg Stolze" "TTRPG" "ttrpgs" "indie ttrpgs" "indie rpgs" "indie ttrpg" "reign 2e"]
 :cohost-url "5032286-reign-2e"}

I got my copy of Reign 2e and Reign: Realms. I read through the core book, will read Realms tomorrow. Gonna copy my thoughts from pms I sent my friend:

Okay, i read it. I skipped the details on the advanced combat and the minutiae of the advantages/powers/magic, but read all the core rules and the company stuff.

It’s the most traditional game I’ve read in a long time. It’s fun! I love the ORE, i don’t like binary dice mechanics, i love love love Greg Stolze’s writing voice, i like that the text spends some time to say “gm, don’t just run players through a plot” and “players, don’t just sit around waiting for plot to fall from heaven”. I like that a whole chapter is a “table of contents” of the various subsystems, explicitly saying “choose only the roles you want to make the kind of game you want, please don’t pick everything”

There are 3 chapters on combat: simple, advanced (layered on simple), and fluid lol. Fluid is really nifty, I wanna try it.

All of the setting stuff is in the second book, but there is a box that says “the only people riding horses are women and eunichs, so all militaries employ women for their cavalry. Sidesaddle isn’t a thing.” Thank god it’s still here.

I fuckin love the ORE random character generation system. It’s fast and simple and pretty clever! Gotta get some friends over so we can try it out.
