{:title "Splint v1.9.0 and v1.10.0"
 :date "2023-07-25T14:30:14.814Z"
 :tags ["cohost mirror" "clojure" "splint" "devblog" "linter" "linters" "functional programming" "programming"]
 :cohost-url "2194446-splint-v1-9-0-and-v1"}

Forgot to post after releasing v1.9.0 back in May, so this is gonna be fuckin huge.

In short: v1.9 added a new rule (`style/prefer-clj-string`) and a new cli flag (`--[no-]summary`). v1.10 added reading available `deps.edn` and `project.clj` files to determine the directories to check, changing the pattern DSL to use a variation of pangloss/pattern's DSL, and to add 5 new rules, 4 of which are `performance` rules (`style/redundant-regex-constructor`, `performance/assoc-many`, `performance/avoid-satisfies`, `performance/get-in-literals`, `performance/get-keyword`).

The change in v1.10 means that you can run `bb splint` or `clojure -M:splint` and it'll "just work": it'll check the primary directories and the directories under and `:test` alias without any extra fiddling. This makes it much easier to use quickly. I've always been annoyed at clj-kondo's insistence on forcing the `--lint` flag for choosing files, and loved Rubocop's "just run it" mentality.

The `performance` rules are disabled by default cuz they might make code more wordy or annoying to work with, and they're _highly_ opinionated. I like them but I get it.

Full release docs/change logs under the fold.

---

## v1.9.0

### New Rules

- `style/prefer-clj-string`: Prefer `clojure.string` functions over raw interop. Defaults to `true`.

### Added

- `--[no]summary` cli flag to print or not print the summary line.

### Changed

- `:filename` in `Diagnostic` is now a `java.io.File` object, not a string. This is propogated through everything. I suspect no one is using these so I think I could change the `Diagnostic` as well, but maybe I'll wait a min.
- `make-edamame-opts` now accepts both `features` and `ns-state`, and `parse-string` and `parse-string-all` take in `features` instead of `ns-state`.
- The runner tracks the filetype of each file and runs over `cljc` files twice, both `clj` and `cljs`, with their respective sides of the reader conditionals applied.
- Diagnostics are deduped before printing.
- `lint/warn-on-reflection` only runs in `clj` files.
- Remove `farolero`. Didn't provide any benefits over judicious `try`/`catch` use. :(
- Extend the `matcher-combinators.core/Matcher` protocol to `java.io.File`, making `match?` work nicely with both strings and file objects.
- Performance improvements by converting `rules-by-type` from a map of simple-type -> map of rule name -> rule to simple-type -> vec of rule.

### Fixed

- Correctly print special characters/clojure.core vars (`@`, not `splint/deref`, etc).

## v1.10.0

The big feature here is adding support to run `splint` without specifying paths. Now Splint will read the `deps.edn` or `project.clj` file in the current directory and check the paths in the base definition as well as `:dev` and `:test` aliases/profiles if no path argument is given. Splint still doesn't support specifying paths in `.splint.edn`, nor does it allow for using paths from a project file as well as additional paths when called, but those are planned.

The second big change is moving from the old DSL to the new `pangloss/pattern` inspired DSL. More flexible, more usable, overall better.

The third is adding `performance` rules. These are off by default and are designed for those who want to pinch their cycles. Some affect common code (`get-in`) and some are much more rare (`satisfies`), but they're all designed to help you be mindful of slower paths.

### Breaking

- Moved `spat.parser` to `splint.parser`.
- Moved `spat.pattern` to `splint.pattern`. RIP `spat`, you treated me well for 9 months, but keeping `spat` and `splint` separate is no longer helpful.
- Switched to the new pattern system, updated all rules.

### New Rules

- `performance/assoc-many`: Prefer `(-> m (assoc :k1 1) (assoc :k2 2))` over `(assoc m :k1 1 :k2 2)`.
- `performance/avoid-satisfies`: Do not use `clojure.core/satisfies?`, full stop.
- `performance/get-in-literals`: Prefer `(-> m :k1 :k2 :k3)` over `(get-in m [:k1 :k2 :k3])`.
- `performance/get-keyword`: Prefer `(:k m)` over `(get m :k)`.
- `style/redundant-regex-constructor`: Prefer `#"abc"` over `(re-pattern #"abc")`.

### Added

- Implemented faster/more efficient versions of Clojure standard library functions:
  - `->list`: concrete list building instead of apply . Useful anywhere a lazy-seq might be returned otherwise. seq/vec input: 40/43 us -> 28/15 us
  - `mapv*`: `mapv` but short-circuits empty input and uses `object-array`. Still unsure of this one. 36 us -> 36 us
  - `run!*`: `run!` but short-circuits empty input and uses `.iterator` to perform the side-effects. Does not support `reduced`. 7 us -> 950 ns
  - `pmap*`: Avoids lazy-seq overhead and relies on Java's built-in Executors. 3.34 s -> 202 ms
  - `walk*` and `postwalk*`: Primarily useful in `replace`, but may prove useful otherwise. Only supports `simple-type` defined types. 72 us -> 25 us
- `splint.config/read-project-file` returns a map of `:clojure-version` and `:paths`, taken from the project file (`deps.edn` or `project.clj`) in the current directory. If no file is found, `:paths` is `nil` and `:clojure-version` is pulled from `*clojure-version*`.
- `:min-clojure-version` in `defrule`, allowing for rules to specify the minimum version of clojure they require. Rules that are below the supported version are disabled at preparation time and can't be enabled during a run. Acceptable shape is a map of at least one of `:major`, `:minor`, and `:incremental`.
  - Include this in rule documentation.
- `test-helpers/with-temp-file` and `test-helpers/print-to-file!` to test file contents.

### Changed

- Move `spat.parser/parse-string` and `spat.parser/parse-string-all` into the test-helper namespace, and replace with `parse-file` which accepts the `file-obj` map.
- Parse data reader/tagged literals as maps instead of lists, and put the extension (dialect) into the symbol's metadata.
- Defer building cli summary until needed.
- Use new `splint.config/slurp-edn` to read config files, parsed with [edamame][edamame].
- Changed `:spat/lit` metadata to `:splint/lit`. `:spat/lit` still works for the time being, but no promises.
- `splint.printer/print-results` now accepts only the `results` object, which should additionally have `:checked-files` and `:total-time`.
- Output formats `simple`, `full,` and `clj-kondo` now print the number of files checked as well: `"Linting took 1ms, checked 3 files, 3 style warnings"`
- Moved `splint.replace/revert-splint-reader-macros` into `splint.printer` where it belongs.
- Rely on undefined behavior in `symbol` to correctly print unprintable special characters by converting sexprs to strings and then converting those to symbols.
- Move `simple-type` and `drop-quote` to `splint.utils`.
