{:title "Splint 1.70"
 :date "2023-05-26T15:01:09.892Z"
 :tags ["cohost mirror" "splint" "clojure" "devblog" "linter" "linters" "functional programming"]
 :cohost-id 1561180
 :cohost-url "1561180-splint-1-70"}

v1.7.0 adds a new rule, a new cli flag, and two new output options. Details under the fold.

---

* `metrics/parameter-count`: Functions shouldn't have more than 4 positional parameters. Has `:positional` and `:include-rest` styles (only positional or include `& args` rest params too?), and `:count` configurable value to set maximum number of parameters allowed.

After using `--quiet` for a while, I realized that it still prints a lot, so I added `-s` / `--silent` to print literally nothing (only returning an exit code). Been helpful when running smoke tests locally, or testing speed of execution.

I added `json` and `json-pretty` to `--output`, which outputs json strings, raw or prettified. The prettified json doesn't look great (it's a clojurist's pprint, not `jq` or `eslint` lol) but it's better than nothing. Might revisit this at a later date.

Splint now tracks all files that have been parsed and checked in the return map under `:checked-files`. No use case yet, but it's helpful to know what's actually been looked at.

Splint now uses [farolero](https://github.com/IGJoshua/farolero/) to handle `splint.runner` errors. I was worried it would slow down the app but so far, I've not run into anything yet.

And here's a short list of bug fixes:

* Only attach parsed `defn` metadata when fn name exactly matches `defn` or `defn-` and second form is a symbol.
* `--no-parallel` was producing a lazy seq, now consumes to actually check all files. Oops lol.
* Map over top-level forms with `nil` parent form instead of treating the whole file as a top-level vector of forms. Fixes `naming/lisp-case`.
* Add pre- and post- `attr-maps` to `defn` metadata when parsing `defn` forms.