{:title "Splint 1.3.0 and 1.4.0 and 1.50"
 :date "2023-05-12T15:28:07.416Z"
 :tags ["cohost mirror" "clojure" "splint" "linter" "linters" "programming" "devblog" "functional programming"]
 :cohost-id 1487259
 :cohost-url "1487259-splint-1-3-0-and-1-4"}

Gonna put the patch notes below the fold

---

v1.3.0 is all new rules, some of which might be helpful! These are all pretty self-explanatory:

- `naming/single-segment-namespace`: Prefer `(ns foo.bar)` to `(ns foo)`.
- `lint/prefer-require-over-use`: Prefer `(:require [clojure.string ...])` to `(:use clojure.string)`. Accepts different styles in the replacement form: `:as`, `:refer [...]` and `:refer :all`.
- `naming/conventional-aliases`: Prefer idiomatic aliases for core libraries (`[clojure.string :as str]` to `[clojure.string :as string]`).
- `naming/lisp-case`: Prefer kebab-case over other cases for top-level definitions. Relies on [camel-snake-kebab](https://github.com/clj-commons/camel-snake-kebab).
- `style/multiple-arity-order`: Function definitions should have multiple arities sorted fewest arguments to most: `(defn foo ([a] 1) ([a b] 2) ([a b & more] 3))`

v1.4.0 added `-v` and `--version` to the cli, which is obvious in hindsight. Also adds `config TYPE` to print either the `full` config (any local merged on top of default), the `local` (just the local file), and the `diff` (to only see where the local is different from default when explicitly setting local config to match defaults).

I also fixed a couple small bugs.

v1.5.0 adds a new genre! `metrics` will handle rules that are like style rules but meant to help give you rough measures of code quality (complexity, etc). `metrics/fn-length` is my first attempt to see how it works and how it looks. I suspect I won't like it but we'll see lol.

- `metrics/fn-length`: Function bodies shouldn't be longer than 10 lines. Has `:body` and `:defn` styles, and `:length` configurable value to set maximum length.

Changed how I write tests to make it better: Now I'm using `nubank/matcher-combinators` to do sub-matching, meaning I can check multiple things at once in a single assertion. Love it. Here's some other changes:

- Track end position of diagnostics.
- Attach location metadata to function "arities" when a defn arg+body isn't wrapped in a list.
- Parse `defn` forms in postprocessing and attach as metadata instead of parsing in individual rules.

Fixed some bugs:

- Fix `style/multiple-arity-order` with `:arglists` metadata.
- Fix binding pattern when binding is falsey.
- Skip `#(.someMethod %)` in `lint/fn-wrapper`.
- Skip `and` and `or` in `style/prefer-condp`.