{:title "splint v1.15.0 - custom rules support!"
 :date "2024-05-01T18:07:25.488Z"
 :tags ["cohost mirror" "clojure" "splint" "programming" "functional programming" "devblog"]
 :cohost-id 5796000
 :cohost-url "5796000-splint-v1-15-0-cus"}

I've been sitting on this release for a little while now, trying to find the right way to approach to supporting custom rules.

The way the rules work currently, when a file with `defrule` is evaluated, the `defrule` macro adds the generated rule to a global atom. This simplifies a lot of stuff in the codebase, and makes adding new rules to splint pretty easy: make a new file, require it in the entrypoint for the library. However, users can't access that entrypoint from the cli, and while I've not exactly hidden the code, I don't think people should have to write their own entrypoint wrappers merely to include their own rules.

Inspired by RuboCop YET AGAIN, I've added a new option, settable in the config file or by passing the relevant flag at the cli, to call `load-file` on a given set of files which will presumably call their custom `defrule` invocations. Because I'm relying on Clojure's built-in behavior, there is no extra code necessary for me to parse or validate the paths myself; I pass them to `load-file` in a loop and print any exceptions that are thrown.

This doesn't particularly scale if you have many such files, but I don't want to support loading a file-seq (every file in a tree, for example), that feels way too risky even for this already risky behavior.

Here's hoping some people use and like this! It's one of the coolest features I've put in yet.

I also added two new rules, small idiomatic suggestions that imo are much better. I don't have a fancy blog to discuss them, giving them an air of authority, but that's okay. Until people start contributing to Splint, I'm gonna do whatever I want lmao.

Can get it [here](https://github.com/NoahTheDuke/splint/releases/tag/v1.15.0).

Full changelog under the fold:

---

## 1.15.0 - 2024-05-01

### New Rules

- `style/is-eq-order`: Prefer `(is (= 200 status))` over `(is (= status 200))` when writing assertions.
- `style/prefer-for-with-literals`: Prefer `(for [item coll] {:a 1 :b item})` over `(map #(hash-map :a 1 :b %) coll)`. (See [#10](https://github.com/NoahTheDuke/splint/issues/10).)

### Added

- `-r`/`--require` cli flag that can be used multiple times and `require` top-level config option that takes a vector of strings. These are loaded with `load-file` at run-time to allow for custom rules to be written and used. (See [#8](https://github.com/NoahTheDuke/splint/issues/8).) This is inherently unsafe, so don't run code you don't know!!!!!

### Changed

- Slight change to the patterns, now a tail-position `?*` or `?+` will immediately return the rest of the current input instead of accumulating it one-by-one. (I mentioned this potential optimization in [my last cohost post about splint](https://cohost.org/noahtheduke/post/4532528-splint-updates-oops). I think it really only matters when consuming large inputs. For anything less than idk maybe 8 elements, it doesn't matter.)
- Reformatted every file to use [Tonsky's Better Clojure formatting](https://tonsky.me/blog/clojurefmt/).
- `lint/warn-on-reflection` now checks that the file contains a proper `ns` form before issuing a diagnostic.
- Updated README speed comparison chart.